[WIP] Dapr docs for .NET SDK (#5)
dapr-sandbox/components-dotnet-sdk: daprdocs/content/en/dotnet-sdk-docs/dotnet-advanced/dotnet-multiple-services.md

---
type: docs

> title: "Multiple services in a .NET Dapr Pluggable Component"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Multiple services in a .NET Dapr pluggable component"
```

linkTitle: "Multiple services"
weight: 1000

> description: How to expose multiple services from a .NET Pluggable Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to expose multiple services from a .NET pluggable component
```

no_list: true
is_preview: true
---

> A Dapr Pluggable Component can host multiple components of varying types. This might be done for efficiency reasons, to minimize the number of sidecars running in a cluster. It might also be done for implementation reasons, to group related components such as a database exposed both as a general state store as well as output bindings that allow more specific operations, where components are likely to share libraries and implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pluggable component can host multiple components of varying types. You might do this:
- To minimize the number of sidecars running in a cluster
- To group related components that are likely to share libraries and implementation, such as:
   - A database exposed both as a general state store, and
   - Output bindings that allow more specific operations.
```

> Each Unix Domain Socket can manage calls to, at most, one component of each type. To host multiple components of the *same* type, those types can be spread across multiple sockets. The SDK binds each socket to a "service", with each service composed of one or more component types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Unix Domain Socket can manage calls to one component of each type. To host multiple components of the _same_ type, you can spread those types across multiple sockets. The SDK binds each socket to a "service", with each service composed of one or more component types.
```

> ## Registering Multiple Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Registering multiple services
```

> Each call to `RegisterService()` binds a socket to a set of registered components, where, at most, one of each type of component can be registered per service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each call to `RegisterService()` binds a socket to a set of registered components, where one of each type of component can be registered per service.
```

```csharp
var app = DaprPluggableComponentsApplication.Create();

app.RegisterService(
    "service-a",
    serviceBuilder =>
    {
        serviceBuilder.RegisterStateStore<MyDatabaseStateStore>();
        serviceBuilder.RegisterBinding<MyDatabaseOutputBinding>();
    });

app.RegisterService(
    "service-b",
    serviceBuilder =>
    {
        serviceBuilder.RegisterStateStore<AnotherStateStore>();
    });

app.Run();

class MyDatabaseStateStore : IStateStore
{
    // ...
}

class MyDatabaseOutputBinding : IOutputBinding
{
    // ...
}

class AnotherStateStore : IStateStore
{
    // ...
}
```

## Configuring Multiple Components

> Configuring Dapr to use the hosted components is the same as for any single component; the component YAML just refers to the associated socket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring Dapr to use the hosted components is the same as for any single component - the component YAML refers to the associated socket.
```

```yaml
#
# This component uses the state store associated with socket `state-store-a`
#
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: state-store-a
spec:
  type: state.service-a
  version: v1
  metadata: []
```

```yaml
#
# This component uses the state store associated with socket `state-store-b`
#
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: state-store-b
spec:
  type: state.service-b
  version: v1
  metadata: []

> ```

Reviewer: Add to bottom of page:

````
## Next steps
Learn how to implement one of the following components with the pluggable component SDK:
- [Input/output bindings]({{< ref dotnet-bindings >}})
- [Pub/sub]({{< ref dotnet-pub-sub >}})
- [State store]({{< ref dotnet-state-store >}})
